Doc 306 - Migrate Query Workers content from KB to docs (#97)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/queryworkers/query-workers.md

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Query Workers
---

> After you build a query, you can save it to create a _Query Worker_. A query worker is cached across all locations in the fabric and can be edited without updating production code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you build a query, you can save it as a _query worker_. Query workers are cached across all GeoFabric locations. You can edit query workers while they are running, but an unsaved query must be redeployed if you need to update it.
```

> You can create and update query workers with the GDN console or by using the REST API. Each Query Worker is tied to a specific query text and parameter set. You can set optional or mandatory default values for query parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create and update query workers from the GUI, command line, or REST API. Each query worker is tied to a specific query text and parameter set. You can set optional or mandatory default values for query parameters.
```

> Each Query Worker is protected and exposed as its own endpoint. Query Workers are organized by fabric (or database) so you can have query workers for different geo-regions or fabrics within same region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each query worker functions as an endpoint. Query workers exist on the GeoFabric level along with other data like collections and documents.
```

## Create a New Query Worker

> When you save a query, it becomes a Query Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you save a query, it becomes a query worker.
```

1. Write a [C8QL](../c8ql/) query.
2. Click **Save Query**.

> 3. Enter a **Name** and then click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a **Name** and click **Save**.
```

## Saved Queries

> So view saved queries, click **Saved Queries**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view saved queries, click **Saved Queries**.
```

> Macrometa displays a list of system-defined queries and user-defined queries. You cannot delete or overwrite system-defined queries, so they display fewer options than user-defined queries. In the screenshot below, the user selected a system query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Macrometa displays a list of default queries and user-defined queries. You cannot delete or overwrite default queries. In the following screenshot, the user selected a default query:
```

![Saved queries](/img/queries/saved-queries.png)

### Copy a Query Worker

> Click the stacked pages to copy any Query Worker and then edit it in the Query Builder. This is useful if you need to make a similar Query Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the stacked pages to copy any query worker and edit it in the Query Builder.
```

### Explain a Query Worker

> Click the chat bubbles to display the [Execution Plan](running-queries.md#execution-plan) of the Query Worker without running the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the chat bubbles to display the [Execution Plan](running-queries.md#execution-plan) of the query worker without running the query.
```

### Run a Query Worker

Click the play icon to run the query.

### Delete a Query Worker

> Click the red minus sign to permanently delete the Query Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the red minus sign to permanently delete the query worker.
```

## Edit a Query Worker

> To edit a Query Worker, do the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit a query worker:
```

1. In **Queries**, click **Saved Queries**.

> 2. Double-click the Query Worker that you want to change. Macrometa opens that Query Worker in the Editor tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Double-click the query worker that you want to change. Macrometa opens it in the Editor tab.
```

> 3. Make any changes to the query and then click **Update Query**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Make any changes to the query and click **Update Query**.
```

Author: I like to include "then" when describing actions that must follow others, otherwise it suggests the two actions should happen at the same time, which can be tough for non-native English speakers.

Reviewer: > I like to include "then" when describing actions that must follow others, otherwise it suggests the two actions should happen at the same time, which can be tough for non-native English speakers.

Sounds good, I'm used to removing "then"s so you might need to correct me here and there 🙂

## Import Query Workers

> You can import custom queries from a saved file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import custom queries from a saved file:
```

> 1. In Macrometa, navigate to **Queries**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Macrometa GUI, navigate to **Queries**.
```

2. Click **Saved Queries**.
3. Click **Import Queries**.

> 4. Select a file and then click **Import**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select a file and click **Import**.
```

:::note

> The file must be a JSON file matching the format on the screen, otherwise Macrometa cannot understand the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imported queries must be JSON files in a consistent format.
```

:::

## Export Query Workers

> You can export custom queries and download them as a JSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export custom queries and download them as a JSON file:
```

> 1. In Macrometa, navigate to **Queries**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Macrometa GUI, navigate to **Queries**.
```
